content/en/_index.md, before:

---
title: "EmoRec EEG"
weight: 0
description: "Generalizability of Emotion Recognition from EEG Signals"
# 1. To ensure Netlify triggers a build on our exampleSite instance, we need to change a file in the exampleSite directory.
theme_version: '2.8.2'
cascade:
  featured_image: 'images/Dalle1.webp'
menu:
  main:
    weight: 1
    name: "Home"
---
The EmoRec EEG workshop will be held at the 12th International Conference on Affective Computing & Intelligent Interaction in Glasgow, UK.  
It aims to foster comparability, generalizability and ultimately progress in the field of EEG-based emotion recognition.  
*The workshop will take place on the 15th of September 2024.*  

## Mailing list

To stay up-to-date, please sign up to our mailing list by sending a request to emorec_eeg_workshop@inria.fr.\
We will distribute any news and future developments regarding the workshop (e.g., clarification of the challenge rules if there are any uncertainties) via the mailing list.

## News
2024/03/28: We decided to exclude the AMIGOS and the DEAP datasets from the challenge because it was to difficult for potential participants to get access.

Commit message:

Added news about changed full paper format

content/en/_index.md, after:

---
title: "EmoRec EEG"
weight: 0
description: "Generalizability of Emotion Recognition from EEG Signals"
# 1. To ensure Netlify triggers a build on our exampleSite instance, we need to change a file in the exampleSite directory.
theme_version: '2.8.2'
cascade:
  featured_image: 'images/Dalle1.webp'
menu:
  main:
    weight: 1
    name: "Home"
---
The EmoRec EEG workshop will be held at the 12th International Conference on Affective Computing & Intelligent Interaction in Glasgow, UK.  
It aims to foster comparability, generalizability and ultimately progress in the field of EEG-based emotion recognition.  
*The workshop will take place on the 15th of September 2024.*  

## Mailing list

To stay up-to-date, please sign up to our mailing list by sending a request to emorec_eeg_workshop@inria.fr.\
We will distribute any news and future developments regarding the workshop (e.g., clarification of the challenge rules if there are any uncertainties) via the mailing list.

## News

2024/04/15: The full-paper format has been changed and is now allowed to contain unlimited references

2024/03/28: We decided to exclude the AMIGOS and the DEAP datasets from the challenge because it was to difficult for potential participants to get access.
